Dear user,

in order to efficiently verify and submit your proposal, please note
that:

    - During the submission process you are now given the possibility to
      review the appearance of your proposal. Before confirming the
      submission, you will be required to confirm that its appearance is
      satisfactory (figures are correctly sized and rotated, text
      doesn't overflow, etc.). After confirmation and submission NO
      FURTHER ALTERATIONS of your proposal will be possible, and it will
      be distributed as-is to the OPC referees.
      
    - PostScript, TIFF and PDF 1.5 pictures ARE NO LONGER ACCEPTED.
      Proposals are processed using an implementation of the pdfLaTeX
      package accepting only PDF (1.0 to 1.4), JPEG, and PNG file
      formats. (You can include these file formats in the same way you
      included Encapsulated Postscript figures in the past.)
      
    - Regardless of format, figure files should not be larger that 1 MB.

At the end of the submission procedure you will be shown an
acknowledgment page: please print it and keep it as a receipt. Submitter
and PI of the proposal should later receive an e-mail acknowledgment, as
well.

Please note that during the last two days before the submission
deadline ESO's proposal handling system is usually very heavily loaded,
which may cause delays in sending acknowledgments. If you are not sure
whether your proposal has successfully entered the system, please DO NOT
re-submit it, and rather write to esoform@eso.org for assistance.

General suggestions:

    - Always compile your proposal with pdfLaTex and PRINT it before
      attempting submission. Many errors can be caught at this stage,
      and doing so can save you a lot of time.
      In case of errors, please read carefully the output in order to
      identify the problem.

    - Plan ahead! Even if the web system is faster than the old e-mail
      based system, please try to submit the proposals at least several
      hours before the deadline to avoid "last minute stress".

    - Proposals will always be printed and distributed to the OPC in
      black and white. Please make sure your color figures are legible
      by the referees.
